Kubernetes Networking
Topics Are:
Services, Ingress, Network Policies, DNS, CNI Plugins
Services
Services provide a way to expose a set of pods to the network. 
A service is an abstract way to expose an application running on a set of Pods as a network service. 
A Service can be exposed in a variety of ways such as ClusterIP, NodePort, and LoadBalancer.

ClusterIP Service
ClusterIP Services are used for communication between Pods within the same Kubernetes cluster.
The Service gets exposed on a static IP that's unique within the cluster.
When you make a request to that IP, the Service takes care of redirecting traffic to one of the Pods it's associated with. 
And if there's more than one Pod, the Service will automatically balance the traffic, 
so no single Pod gets bogged down by too many requests.

NodePort Service
The NodePort Service is useful when you need to expose your application to external clients.
This means all traffic that is coming from outside of the cluster.
When you create a NodePort Service, Kubernetes opens a port (in the range of 30000 and 32767) on all of its worker nodes.
Note that the same port number is used across all of them. All traffic incoming to the worker node's IP address, 
and that specific port, is redirected to a Pod linked with that Service.

LoadBalancer Service
A LoadBalancer Service is another way you can expose your application to external clients. 
However, it only works when you're using Kubernetes on a cloud platform that supports this Service type.
The LoadBalancer Service detects the cloud computing platform on which the cluster is running and creates 
an appropriate load balancer in the cloud provider’s infrastructure. The load balancer will have its own unique, 
publicly accessible IP address. For example, if the cluster is running on Amazon Web Services (AWS),
the Service will create an Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) to distribute incoming traffic across multiple nodes in the cluster.

ExternalName Service
An ExternalName Service in Kubernetes is useful when you have a service that is running outside your Kubernetes cluster, 
such as a database, and you want to access it from within your cluster.

Kubernetes Ingress
It is the same in the Kubernetes world as well. Ingress means the traffic that enters
the cluster and egress is the traffic that exits the cluster.
Ingress is a native Kubernetes resource like pods, deployments, etc.
Using ingress, you can maintain the DNS routing configurations.
The ingress controller does the actual routing by reading the routing rules from ingress objects stored in etcd.

Kubernetes Network Policies
This is Kubernetes assets that control the traffic between pods. 
Kubernetes network policy lets developers secure access to and from their applications.
This is how we can restrict a user for access.
Any request that is successfully authenticated (including an anonymous request) is then authorized.
The default authorization mode is always allowed, which allows all requests. 
In Kubernetes, you must be authenticated (logged in) before your request can be authorized (granted permission to access).

DNS :
Kubernetes creates DNS records for Services and Pods. You can contact Services with consistent DNS names instead of IP addresses.
Kubelet configures Pods' DNS so that running containers can lookup Services by name rather than IP.

CNI PLUGINS:
Container Network Interface, a Cloud Native Computing Foundation venture,
comprises of detail and libraries for writing plugins to configure network interfaces in Linux containers

